
			Installation Procedure for Ytalk


0) Preparation

To build and install Ytalk, you need to unpack the archive.  Since you're
reading this text, you have presumabley already done that.  Ytalk uses
GNU autoconf now for configuration; those of you familiar with compiling
GNU utilities will feel quite at home.

Short & sweet:

	./configure
	make
	make install

1) Configuration

To configure Ytalk, run the `configure' script provided with the
distribution.  You may use all the standard arguments configure scripts
take.  The most important ones are:

  --help                  print help message

  --prefix=PREFIX         install architecture-independent files in PREFIX
                          (/usr/local by default)
  --bindir=DIR            user executables in DIR (PREFIX/bin)
  --infodir=DIR           info documentation in DIR [PREFIX/info]
  --mandir=DIR            man documentation in DIR [PREFIX/man]

  --with-x		  use the X11 interface (default)
  --without-x		  do not use the X11 interface; use text only

  --x-includes=DIR	  specify where X11's include files are
  --x-libraries=DIR	  specify where X11's libraries are


The `./configure' script also understands a number of environment variables:

  CPPFLAGS   flags to give to CPP and CC.
	     ex: CPPFLAGS=-I/path/to/some/include/dir ./configure

  LIBS       extra libraries to link to, and/or where to find them.
	     ex: LIBS="-L/path/to/extra/libs -R/path/to/extra/libs" ./configure

  CFLAGS     flags to give when compiling (default is -g -O2).
	     ex: CFLAGS=-O2 ./configure

  LDFLAGS    extra flags to give when linking.
	     ex: LDFLAGS=-s ./configure

You can customize many default settings by editing Makefile and
config.h.  The program will work very well without your touching these
files, but it is useful to have a look at things you can change there.

2) Compilation

To compile the program, type make and cross your fingers.  YTalk is
fairly portable, so this _should_ work out of the box.  If it doesn't,
please mail me with all the details at <roger.espel.llima@pobox.com>.

After the compilation, a ready to use `ytalk' executable should reside
in the distribution directory.  Other than missing its system-wide
configuration file, it'll be all ready to use.

This is also the right moment to look at the file `ytalkrc', which will
be installed as the system-wide configuration file.

If you change any options in the Makefile, please run "make clean"
before recompiling.  If you change the environment variables to run
`./configure' again, please delete the file `config.cache'.

3) Installation

Use `make install' to install Ytalk to the directories specified to
configure (/usr/local/* by default).

The standard installation process will copy the ytalk binary to
/usr/local/bin, the man page to /usr/local/man/man1, and the system
ytalkrc to /usr/local/etc.  You can customize the directories either
through the configuration process or making the necessary changes in the
Makefile.

To delete the files created by Ytalk installation, you can use make
uninstall.

4) Acknowledgements

Previous YTalk versions were maintained by Britt Yenne; since version
3.0pl2 was released quite a few years ago, I assume he has lost interest
in Ytalk, so I've been maintaining it in a "low-key" way (mostly just
fixing bugs and adding minor things, now autoconf-ing it, and
integrating people's bug fixes).

Most of these installation instructions are taken word-for-word from the
`INSTALL' file that comes with GNU Wget.  This means that, unlike the
rest of the YTalk package (which is freely copyable as long as the
copyright notices are kept in the sources), this file is (probably)
covered by the GNU General Public License version 2.

